# Overview

- `src/visualize_results_global_alignment.py`: loads the floorplan PNG and overlays the recorded trajectory in 2D.

- `trajectory_recorder/src/save_tf.py`: listens to the ROS static transform `map -> global`, saves it once published, and exits.

- `line_extractor`: ROS2 node with two subscribers, one subscriber listens to "/ov_msckf/poseimu" to get the SLAM trajectory, second subscriber listens to "/cam0/image_raw/compressed" to get raw camera frames.

- `src/reconstruct_3d.py` takes the csv file of poses and the csv file of edges generated by the `line_extractor` node and uses them to reconstruct the edges in 3D.

Global alignment:
- get the alignment transform from ROS, by running a  subscriber which reads information from HILI's TF publisher -> start position + Openvins estimated orientation
- then use that transform later to align the raw trajectory with the floorplan.

Alignment using edges:
What does `line_extractor` do?
- Save poses (x, y, z, qx, qy, qz, qw) from "/ov_msckf/poseimu" to a csv file.
- Take images from "/cam0/image_raw/compressed" and use OpenCV `cv::line_descriptor::BinaryDescriptor::createBinaryDescriptor()` to detect edges.
- Keep only the edges that are: in the region where the corner between the walls and the floor is located, within 30 deg from being horizontal, and longer than 75 pixels.
- Create descriptors for the identified edges.  We use Binary Descriptors as these are fast to match.
- Match the descriptors across frames using OpenCV `cv::line_descriptor::BinaryDescriptorMatcher::createBinaryDescriptorMatcher()`.
- Only keep descriptor matches that are above a confidence threshold and only search for matches between frames that are a time of `search_window_` apart (seconds).
- Of the identified matches select the matches that are furthest apart in time (and therefore in space).  Save the edges to a CSV file, this includes: x and y coordinates of starting point and x and y coordinates of end point for the edge in the first frame and for the edge in the second frame, and the timestamps of the first frame and of the second frame.
What does `reconstruct_3d.py` do?
- Import the csv file of poses and the csv file of edges generated by the `line_extractor`.
- Calculate the transformation matrix from an edge in world frame coordinates (3D) to camera coordinates (2D).  This is just the extrinsics + intrinsics.
- Extrinsics are formed by combining the IMU pose (which is obtained for each pose from the poses csv file) and the transformation from the IMU to the camera (taken from HILTI Kalibr calibration, see `T_cam_imu` variable).
- Intrinsics are taken from HILTI Kalibr calibration, see `K` variable.  Note that currently a pinhole camera model is used because it is linear but in the future it would make sense to use an EUCM camera model since this models the distortion more accurately, however, this model is more difficult to use because it is nonlinear.
- Use the previous to calculate the world frame (3D) to camera frame (2D) transformation matrix (3x4), this is done in the function `CalculateProjectionMatrix`
- Plot the poses of the trajectory in 3D.
- For each edge use OpenCV `cv2.triangulatePoints` to reconstruct the two vertices of the edge in 3D from their 2D counterparts.
- Plot the edges of the trajectory in 3D.

# How to run the TF subscriber

Run the subscribers: (Note: make sure it runs before OpenVINS is brought up) - Orientation subscriber integrated in the file that runs the whole thing simultaneously (./run_slam.sh)

Then run:

```bash
ros2 run trajectory_recorder save_tf.py
```

# How to run line_extractor and reconstruct_3d.py

To run `line_extractor` run the following.  The first argument: `poses_v1` is the name of the csv file where the poses will be saved.  Second argument: `lines_v1` is the name of the csv file where the edges will be saved.

```bash
ros2 run line_extractor line_extractor poses_v1 lines_v1
```

User-defined parameters (feel free to change these):
- `search_window_` maximum time that can have passed between two camera frames for the edges in the frames to be considered for matches (in seconds).
- `min_match_score_` minimum score that a descriptor match must have to be an acceptable match.
- `img_bbox_` coordinates of the vertices defining the polygon inside of which matches are searched for.
- `acceptable_angle_` maximum angle from horizontal that an edge must have to be accepted as a valid edge (in degrees).
- `acceptable_length_` minimum length that an edge must have to be accepted as a valid edge (in pixels).

To run `reconstruct_3d.py` run the following:

```bash
python3 reconstruct_3d.py
```
